pages/integrations/claude_code.md, before:

# Claude Code

You can connect Tidewave Web directly to [Claude Code](https://www.claude.com/product/claude-code) by following the steps below:

1. Install the `claude` CLI
2. Authenticate with your Claude subscription
3. Connect to Claude Code

Once setup, Tidewave will use your Claude Code subscription and settings (including MCP servers, subagents, etc).

## Install the `claude` CLI

You can [install the Claude Code CLI in different ways](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup). However, because installing the `Claude Code ACP`, in step 3, requires using `npm`, our recommendation is to [install `npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) and then run:

```shell
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`
```

If you install `claude` and Tidewave Web cannot detect it, please restart the Tidewave App/CLI by clicking its menu bar icon (top-right on macOS and Linux, bottom-right on Windows) and selecting "Restart".

## Authenticate with Claude

Once `claude` is installed, you must authenticate with your Claude subscription. You can do this by simply running `claude` in any directory and then following the described steps:

```shell
claude
```

## Connect to Claude Code

If you have `npm`/`npx` available in your PATH, Tidewave will use it to automatically install and connect to [Claude Code ACP](https://github.com/zed-industries/claude-code-acp). Open up Tidewave Web settings, choose the Providers tab, choose "Claude Code" and click "Connect".

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qxzPZ0PGd2s?si=mnci1z08B44y1F5z" title="Tidewave and Claude Code" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If "Connect" is not available, it is because `npm`/`npx` could not be found. You can check your `npm`/`npx` installation by running `which npx` (on macOS/Unix) or `where npx` (Windows) in the same terminal you start your web server. If it fails (and only if it fails), you can explicitly install `claude-code-acp` with `npm install -g @zed-industries/claude-code-acp`.

Once Tidewave Web connects to Claude Code, we will automatically configure Claude Code to also use Tidewave MCP. You may disable this option if (and only if) you have already customized Claude Code to use Tidewave MCP.

## Customizing your environment

Our integration will reuse your Claude Code settings. Furthermore, Tidewave will automatically pass your environment variables to Claude Code, using this level of priority:

1. the environment variables used when starting your web app (higher priority)
2. the environment variables configured in your Tidewave App (or given to the Tidewave CLI)

To configure the Tidewave app to use [Claude Code's environment variables](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/settings#environment-variables), click on the Tidewave icon in your menu bar (top-right on macOS and Linux, bottom-right on Windows) and then on "Settings...". Doing so will open a file where you can add the desired environment variables, for example:

```toml
# This file is used to configure the Tidewave app.
# If you change this file, you must restart Tidewave.

[env]
CLAUDE_CODE_USE_VERTEX = "1"
CLAUDE_CODE_EXECUTABLE = "..."
MAX_THINKING_TOKENS = "9999"
```

If you are using the CLI, you can set those variables when starting the CLI.

## FAQ

#### Using Tidewave Web with Claude Code emits "Authentication required"

This means you haven't authenticated in the `claude` CLI. Remember to run `claude` and, if Tidewave Web still claims you are not authenticated, restart the Tidewave App/CLI by clicking its menu bar icon (top-right on macOS and Linux, bottom-right on Windows) and selecting "Restart".

#### `claude` is available on my machine but Tidewave cannot find it

Please double check `claude` is indeed available as an executable by running `which claude`. In some installations, `claude` is installed as an alias, which cannot be found nor used by Tidewave.

Commit message:

Clarify MAX_THINKNIG_TOKENS placement

pages/integrations/claude_code.md, after:

# Claude Code

You can connect Tidewave Web directly to [Claude Code](https://www.claude.com/product/claude-code) by following the steps below:

1. Install the `claude` CLI
2. Authenticate with your Claude subscription
3. Connect to Claude Code

Once setup, Tidewave will use your Claude Code subscription and settings (including MCP servers, subagents, etc).

## Install the `claude` CLI

You can [install the Claude Code CLI in different ways](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup). However, because installing the `Claude Code ACP`, in step 3, requires using `npm`, our recommendation is to [install `npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) and then run:

```shell
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`
```

If you install `claude` and Tidewave Web cannot detect it, please restart the Tidewave App/CLI by clicking its menu bar icon (top-right on macOS and Linux, bottom-right on Windows) and selecting "Restart".

## Authenticate with Claude

Once `claude` is installed, you must authenticate with your Claude subscription. You can do this by simply running `claude` in any directory and then following the described steps:

```shell
claude
```

## Connect to Claude Code

If you have `npm`/`npx` available in your PATH, Tidewave will use it to automatically install and connect to [Claude Code ACP](https://github.com/zed-industries/claude-code-acp). Open up Tidewave Web settings, choose the Providers tab, choose "Claude Code" and click "Connect".

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qxzPZ0PGd2s?si=mnci1z08B44y1F5z" title="Tidewave and Claude Code" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If "Connect" is not available, it is because `npm`/`npx` could not be found. You can check your `npm`/`npx` installation by running `which npx` (on macOS/Unix) or `where npx` (Windows) in the same terminal you start your web server. If it fails (and only if it fails), you can explicitly install `claude-code-acp` with `npm install -g @zed-industries/claude-code-acp`.

Once Tidewave Web connects to Claude Code, we will automatically configure Claude Code to also use Tidewave MCP. You may disable this option if (and only if) you have already customized Claude Code to use Tidewave MCP.

## Customizing your environment

Our integration will reuse your Claude Code settings. Furthermore, Tidewave will automatically pass your environment variables to Claude Code, using this level of priority:

1. the environment variables used when starting your web app (higher priority)
2. the environment variables configured in your Tidewave App (or given to the Tidewave CLI)

To configure the Tidewave app to use [Claude Code's environment variables](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/settings#environment-variables), click on the Tidewave icon in your menu bar (top-right on macOS and Linux, bottom-right on Windows) and then on "Settings...". Doing so will open a file where you can add the desired environment variables, for example:

```toml
# This file is used to configure the Tidewave app.
# If you change this file, you must restart Tidewave.

[env]
CLAUDE_CODE_USE_VERTEX = "1"
CLAUDE_CODE_EXECUTABLE = "..."
```

If you are using the CLI, you can set those variables when starting the CLI.

> #### `MAX_THINKING_TOKENS` configuration {: .warning}
>
> The `MAX_THINKING_TOKENS` configuration, exclusively, cannot be set in the Tidewave App/CLI environment. You must set it in the same session that as your running app. This is because Tidewave sets a default of 31999 tokens (which is the same as Claude Code itself).

## FAQ

#### Using Tidewave Web with Claude Code emits "Authentication required"

This means you haven't authenticated in the `claude` CLI. Remember to run `claude` and, if Tidewave Web still claims you are not authenticated, restart the Tidewave App/CLI by clicking its menu bar icon (top-right on macOS and Linux, bottom-right on Windows) and selecting "Restart".

#### `claude` is available on my machine but Tidewave cannot find it

Please double check `claude` is indeed available as an executable by running `which claude`. In some installations, `claude` is installed as an alias, which cannot be found nor used by Tidewave.
